[DOCS] Modify serialization fields in api (#12640)
Sylius/Sylius: docs/customization/api.rst

        swagger:
            versions: [3]

> And if you want to modify serialization add this code to framework config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, if you're planning to modify serialization add this code to framework config:
```

> And if you want to modify serialization add this code to framework config:
> 
> .. code-block:: yaml
> 
>     # config/packages/framework.yaml
>     //...
>     serializer:
>         mapping:
>             paths: [ '%kernel.project_dir%/config/serialization' ]
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Why remove? I have added the change with this to Sylius-standard but to master branch, still older versions need to have this config added manually.

Author: This note is also in `How to prepare project for customization?` section and we have information about supported version `If your project was created before v1.10...`

Reviewer 2: just Symfony by default is looking for the `serializer` folder and then we would not need any configuration at all... But we may stay with this config to be closer to Api Platform

    Changing prefix without security configuration update can expose confidential data (like customers addresses).

After these two steps you can start to use endpoints with new prefixes

How to customize serialization?
===============================

Let's assume that you want to modify responses with your custom fields serialized in response.
For an example we will use ``Product`` resource and customize its fields.

Adding a field to response
==========================

Let's say that you want to add a new field named ``additionalText`` to ``Product``.
First let's create a new serializer that will supports our ``Product`` resource.

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

>     namespace App\Serializer;

Author: I am not sure about namespace here and in xml service declaration. Btw is xml ok here or should I make a yaml counterpart?

Reviewer 3: The namespace is OK for me, but I would be for adding the service definition in YAML as it is the standard in our docs

    use Sylius\Component\Core\Model\ProductInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Serializer\Normalizer\ContextAwareNormalizerInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Serializer\Normalizer\NormalizerInterface;
    use Webmozart\Assert\Assert;

    final class ProductSerializer implements ContextAwareNormalizerInterface
    {
        /** @var NormalizerInterface */
        private $objectNormalizer;

        public function __construct(NormalizerInterface $objectNormalizer) {
            $this->objectNormalizer = $objectNormalizer;
        }

        public function normalize($object, $format = null, array $context = [])
        {
            Assert::isInstanceOf($object, ProductInterface::class);

            $data = $this->objectNormalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);

            return $data;
        }

        public function supportsNormalization($data, $format = null, $context = []): bool
        {
            return $data instanceof ProductInterface;
        }
    }

> And now let's declare it's service in config files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And now let's declare its service in config files.
```

oh, what a _native mistake_ :D 🇬🇧

.. code-block:: xml

    <service id="App\Serializer\ProductSerializer">
            <argument type="service" id="api_platform.serializer.normalizer.item" />
            <tag name="serializer.normalizer" />
    </service>

Then we can add the new field.

.. code-block:: php

    //...
    $data = $this->objectNormalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);

    $data['additionalText'] = 'your custom text or logic that will be added to this field.';

    return $data;
    //...

> Now your response should be extended with new field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now your response should be extended with the new field:
```

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        "additionalText": "my additional field with text",
        //...
    }

> Removing a field from response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Removing a field from a response
```

==============================

Let's say that for some reason you want to remove some field from serialization.
Your possible solution could be that you use serialization groups.
Those will limit the fields from your resource, according to serialization groups that you will choose.

.. tip::

    Read more about API Platform `serialization groups <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/serialization/#using-serialization-groups>`_

But if you want to remove the field by utilising serializer, first step is to create a class as in ``Adding a field from response`` and register it's service.

> Let's assume that ``Product`` resource returns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume that ``Product`` resource returns such a response:
```

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        "translations": {
            "en_US": {
              "@id": "/api/v2/shop/product-translations/123",
              "@type": "ProductTranslation",
              "id": 123,
              "name": "product name",
              "slug": "product-name"
        }
    }

> Then let's say you want to remove ``translations``. We can do it by adding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then let's say you want to remove ``translations``. We can do it by adding:
```

.. code-block:: php

    //...
    $data = $this->objectNormalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);

    unset($data['translations']); // removes `translations` from response

    return $data;
    //...

> Now your response fields should look like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now your response fields should look like this:
```

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ]
    }

> Renaming a field from response

Reviewer 3: It should be achieved by setting `serialized-name` attribute in serialization config, similar as: https://github.com/Sylius/Sylius/blob/master/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/serialization/Commands/AddProductReview.xml#L31

> Renaming a field from response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Renaming a field of a response
```

==============================

> As simple as any other steps, renaming name of response fields is also very simple.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As simple as any other steps, changing the names of response fields is also very simple.
```

> Let's modify the ``optionValues`` name to ``options`` that's how response looks like now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's modify the ``optionValues`` name to ``options`` that's how response looks like now:
```

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "product": "/api/v2/shop/products/product_code",
        "optionValues": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/product_size_s"
        ],
        //...
    }

> Now let's modify the serialization class that we used before with some simple logic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's modify the serialization class that we used before with some simple logic.
```

.. code-block:: php

    //...
    $data = $this->objectNormalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);

    $data['options'] = $data['optionValues']; // this will change the name of your field
    unset($data['optionValues']); // optionally you can also remove old `optionValues` field

    return $data;
    //...

> And here we go, now your response should look like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And here we go, now your response should look like this:
```

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "product": "/api/v2/shop/products/product_code",
        "options": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/product_size_s"
        ],
        //...
    }

> .. tip::
> 
>     Read more about API Platform `serialization <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/serialization>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more
-----------

* `API Platform serialization <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/serialization>`_
```

    </attribute>
    <!--...-->

Now we need to modify the file ``config/serialization/Product.xml`` and add this custom serialization group to fields we want to show:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!--...-->
    <attribute name="updatedAt">
            <group>admin:product:read</group>
    </attribute>
    <attribute name="translations">
        <group>admin:product:create</group>
        <group>admin:product:read</group>
        <group>admin:product:update</group>
        <group>shop:product:read</group>
    </attribute>
    <attribute name="mainTaxon">
        <group>admin:product:create</group>
        <group>admin:product:read</group>
        <group>admin:product:update</group>
        <group>shop:product:read</group>
        <group>shop:product:custom_read</group>
    </attribute>
    <!--...-->

.. note::

    In example the ``translations`` doesn't have the new group ``shop:product:custom_read`` so it won't be shown by that endpoint.
    The rest of fields that we wan't to show has the new serialization group declared.

In cases, where you would like to remove small amount of fields, the serializer would be a way to go.

> First step is to create a class as in ``Adding a field from response`` and register it's service.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First step is to create a class as in ``Adding a custom field to response`` and register its service.
```
?

    Changing prefix without security configuration update can expose confidential data (like customers addresses).

> After these two steps you can start to use endpoints with new prefixes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After these two steps you can start to use endpoints with new prefixes.
```

How to customize serialization?
-------------------------------

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

If you would like to customize the folder, where the serialization configs are stored you need to add this code to framework config:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/packages/framework.yaml
    //...
    serializer:
        mapping:
            paths: [ '%kernel.project_dir%/config/serialization' ]

```

Let's say that you want to change the serialized fields in your responses.
For an example we will use ``Product`` resource and customize its fields.

Adding a field to response
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's say that you want to serialize existing field named ``averageRating`` to ``Product`` in admin response so the administrator would be able to check what is the average rating of product.

First let's copy serialization configuration file named ``Product.xml`` from ``%kernel.project_dir%/vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/serialization/``
to ``config/serialization/Product.xml``

Then let's find the attribute ``averageRating``:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!--...-->

>     <attribute name="averageRating">
>             <group>shop:product:read</group>
>     </attribute>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <attribute name="averageRating">
        <group>shop:product:read</group>
    </attribute>
```

> First let's copy serialization configuration file named ``Product.xml`` from ``%kernel.project_dir%/vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/serialization/``
> to ``config/serialization/Product.xml``
> 
> Then let's find the attribute ``averageRating``:
> 
> .. code-block:: xml
> 
>     <!--...-->
>     <attribute name="averageRating">
>             <group>shop:product:read</group>
>     </attribute>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First let's create a file named ``Product.xml`` in ``config/serializer/Product.xml`` and add the following code there:

.. code-block:: xml
<?xml version="1.0" ?>

<serializer xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping https://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping/serializer-mapping-1.0.xsd"
>
    <class name="Sylius\Component\Core\Model\Product">
        <attribute name="averageRating">
            <group>admin:product:read</group>
        </attribute>
    </class>
</serializer>

```

    <!--...-->

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

and add serialization group that is used by endpoint we want to modify

.. tip::

    You can create your own serialization group for every endpoint or use the one out of the box. If you don't know the name of group for endpoint you want to modify,
    you can find it by searching for your class configuration file in `%kernel.project_dir%/vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/api_resources``
    and look for path that you want to modify.

In this case the new ``group`` is called ``admin:product:read``:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!--...-->
    <attribute name="averageRating">
            <group>admin:product:read</group>

>             <group>shop:product:read</group>

Reviewer 3: Wrong indentation

    </attribute>
    <!--...-->

After this change your response should be extended with new field:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        "averageRating": 3,
        //...
    }

.. tip::

    Read more about API Platform `serialization groups <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/serialization/#using-serialization-groups>`_

We were able to add a field that exists in ``Product`` class, but what if you want to extend it with custom fields?
Let's customize response now with your custom fields serialized in response.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.. tip::    The same way you may expose additional fields added to any Sylius resource  

```

Adding a custom field to response
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's say that you want to add a new field named ``additionalText`` to ``Product``.

> First we need to create a new serializer that will support our ``Product`` resource, but in this case we have a ``ProductNormalizer`` provided from Sylius.

Reviewer 3: I wonder if the better example wouldn't be the entity that has no ProductNormalizer in Sylius (but this case should be mentioned in some note or warning)

> Unfortunately we cannot use more than one normalizer per resource, hence we will override existing one.

Reviewer 2: Do we really need to override the whole service? Won't decoration do the trick?

Author: There is some magic from Api-platforms trait `NormalizerAwareTrait` that won't let me decorate it nicely.

        public function normalize($object, $format = null, array $context = [])
        {
            Assert::isInstanceOf($object, ProductInterface::class);
            Assert::keyNotExists($context, self::ALREADY_CALLED);

            $context[self::ALREADY_CALLED] = true;

            $data = $this->normalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);
            $variant = $this->defaultProductVariantResolver->getVariant($object);
            $data['defaultVariant'] = $variant === null ? null : $this->iriConverter->getIriFromItem($variant);

            return $data;
        }

        public function supportsNormalization($data, $format = null, $context = []): bool
        {
            if (isset($context[self::ALREADY_CALLED])) {
                return false;
            }

            return $data instanceof ProductInterface;
        }
    }

And now let's declare its service in config files:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/services.yaml
    App\Serializer\ProductNormalizer:
        tags:
            - { name: 'serializer.normalizer', priority: 100 }

.. warning::

    As we can use only one Normalizer per resource we need to set priority higher then one from Sylius.

>     Default value for Sylius Normalizers is typically 64, but if you want to be sure, check the values in ``src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/services/serializers.xml``

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure if 64 is a typical value, we've probably just copied it from API Platform docs

> Then we can add the new field:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then we can add the new field, for example between `$data['defaultVariant'] = $variant === null ? null : $this->iriConverter->getIriFromItem($variant);` and `return` statement:
```

Author: After changes to example it's not valid anymore

.. tip::

    Read more about API Platform `serialization groups <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/serialization/#using-serialization-groups>`_

Let's assume that ``Product`` resource returns such a response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        "translations": {
            "en_US": {
              "@id": "/api/v2/shop/product-translations/123",
              "@type": "ProductTranslation",
              "id": 123,
              "name": "product name",
              "slug": "product-name"
        }
    }

Then let's say you want to remove ``translations``.

Utilising serialization groups to remove fields might be quite tricky as Symfony combines all of the serialization files into one.
The easiest solution to remove the field is to create a new serialization group and use it for fields you want to have and declare this group in the endpoint.

First let's add the ``config/api_platform/Product.xml`` configuration file. See ``How to add an additional endpoint?`` for more information.

> Then let's modify the endpoint. For this example i will use GET item in shop, but you can also create some custom endpoint:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then let's modify the endpoint. For this example, I will use GET item in the shop, but you can also create some custom endpoint:
```

.. code-block:: xml

    <!--...-->
    <itemOperation name="shop_get">
        <attribute name="method">GET</attribute>
        <attribute name="path">/shop/products/{code}</attribute>
        <attribute name="openapi_context">
            <attribute name="summary">Use code to retrieve a product resource.</attribute>
        </attribute>
        <attribute name="normalization_context">
            <attribute name="groups">shop:product:read</attribute>
        </attribute>
    </itemOperation>
    <!--...-->

then let's change the serialization group in ``normalization_context`` attribute to `shop:product:custom_read`:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!--...-->
    <attribute name="normalization_context">
        <attribute name="groups">shop:product:custom_read</attribute>
    </attribute>
    <!--...-->

> Now we need to modify the file ``config/serialization/Product.xml`` and add this custom serialization group to fields we want to show:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we can define all the fields we want to expose in the ``config/serialization/Product.xml``:
```

.. code-block:: xml

    <!--...-->

>     <attribute name="updatedAt">
>             <group>admin:product:read</group>
>     </attribute>
>     <attribute name="translations">
>         <group>admin:product:create</group>
>         <group>admin:product:read</group>
>         <group>admin:product:update</group>
>         <group>shop:product:read</group>
>     </attribute>
>     <attribute name="mainTaxon">
>         <group>admin:product:create</group>
>         <group>admin:product:read</group>
>         <group>admin:product:update</group>
>         <group>shop:product:read</group>
>         <group>shop:product:custom_read</group>
>     </attribute>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

<?xml version="1.0" ?>

<serializer xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping https://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping/serializer-mapping-1.0.xsd"
>
    <class name="Sylius\Component\Core\Model\Product">
         <attribute name="mainTaxon">
            <group>shop:product:custom_read</group>
        </attribute>
        <attribute name="averageRating">
            <group>admin:product:read</group>
        </attribute>
    </class>
</serializer>
```

    <!--...-->

> .. note::
> 
>     In example the ``translations`` doesn't have the new group ``shop:product:custom_read`` so it won't be shown by that endpoint.
>     The rest of the fields that we want to show have the new serialization group declared.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: I would leave this section (with some changes) so it would be better to understand what is happening.

First step is to create a class as in ``Adding a custom field to response`` and register its service.

Then modify it's logic with this code:

.. code-block:: php

    //...
    $data = $this->normalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);

    unset($data['translations']); // removes `translations` from response

    return $data;
    //...

Now your response fields should look like this:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        // the translations which were here are now removed
    }

Renaming a field of a response
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Renaming name of response fields is very simple. In this example
let's modify the ``optionValues`` name to ``options``, that's how response looks like now:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "product": "/api/v2/shop/products/product_code",
        "optionValues": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/product_size_s"
        ],
        //...
    }

> The simplest method to achieve this is to modify serialization configuration file.
> We can use the file ``config/serialization/Product.xml`` from example above and find the attribute named ``optionValues``
> 
> .. code-block:: xml
> 
>     <!--...-->
>     <attribute name="optionValues">
>             <group>admin:product:read</group>
>             <group>shop:product:read</group>
>     </attribute>
>     <!--...-->
> 
> And just add a ``serialized-name`` into attribute description with new name:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simplest method to achieve this is to modify the serialization configuration file that we've already created. 
Let's add to the ``config/serialization/Product.xml`` file config for optionValues with a ``serialized-name`` attribute description:
```

.. code-block:: xml

>     <!--...-->
>     <attribute name="optionValues" serialized-name="option">
>             <group>admin:product:read</group>
>             <group>shop:product:read</group>
>     </attribute>
>     <!--...-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: xml

<?xml version="1.0" ?>

<serializer xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping"
            xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
            xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping https://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping/serializer-mapping-1.0.xsd"
>
    <class name="Sylius\Component\Core\Model\Product">
         <attribute name="mainTaxon">
            <group>shop:product:custom_read</group>
        </attribute>
        <attribute name="averageRating">
            <group>admin:product:read</group>
        </attribute>
        
        <attribute name="optionValues" serialized-name="option">
            <group>admin:product:read</group>
            <group>shop:product:read</group>
        </attribute>
    </class>
</serializer>
```

    Changing prefix without security configuration update can expose confidential data (like customers addresses).

After these two steps you can start to use endpoints with new prefixes

How to customize serialization?
-------------------------------

Let's say that you want to change the serialized fields in your responses.
For an example we will use ``Product`` resource and customize its fields.

Adding a field to response
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Let's say that you want to serialize existing field named ``averageRating`` to ``Product`` in admin response so the administrator would be able to check what is products average rating.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's say that you want to serialize existing field named ``averageRating`` to ``Product`` in admin response so the administrator would be able to check what is the average rating of product.
```

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        "averageRating": 3,
        //...
    }

.. tip::

    Read more about API Platform `serialization groups <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/serialization/#using-serialization-groups>`_

We were able to add a field that exists in ``Product`` class, but what if you want to extend it with custom fields?
Let's customize response now with your custom fields serialized in response.

Adding a custom field to response
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's say that you want to add a new field named ``additionalText`` to ``Product``.
First let's create a new serializer that will support our ``Product`` resource:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace App\Serializer;

    use Sylius\Component\Core\Model\ProductInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Serializer\Normalizer\ContextAwareNormalizerInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Serializer\Normalizer\NormalizerInterface;
    use Webmozart\Assert\Assert;

>     final class ProductSerializer implements ContextAwareNormalizerInterface

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    final class ProductNormalizer implements ContextAwareNormalizerInterface
```
and adjust this service according to the [API Platform docs](https://api-platform.com/docs/core/serialization/#changing-the-serialization-context-on-a-per-item-basis) and to the [normalizer for Product in Sylius](https://github.com/Sylius/Sylius/blob/master/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Serializer/ProductNormalizer.php)

    {
        /** @var NormalizerInterface */
        private $objectNormalizer;

        public function __construct(NormalizerInterface $objectNormalizer) {
            $this->objectNormalizer = $objectNormalizer;
        }

        public function normalize($object, $format = null, array $context = [])
        {
            Assert::isInstanceOf($object, ProductInterface::class);

            $data = $this->objectNormalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);

            return $data;
        }

        public function supportsNormalization($data, $format = null, $context = []): bool
        {
            return $data instanceof ProductInterface;
        }
    }

And now let's declare its service in config files:

.. code-block:: xml

    <service id="App\Serializer\ProductSerializer">
            <argument type="service" id="api_platform.serializer.normalizer.item" />
            <tag name="serializer.normalizer" />

>     </service>

Reviewer 3: I would be for adding the service definition in YAML as it is the standard in our docs

        ],
        "additionalText": "my additional field with text",
        //...
    }

Removing a field from a response
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's say that for some reason you want to remove some field from serialization.
One of possible solution could be that you use serialization groups.
Those will limit the fields from your resource, according to serialization groups that you will choose.

.. tip::

    Read more about API Platform `serialization groups <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/serialization/#using-serialization-groups>`_

Let's assume that ``Product`` resource returns such a response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        "translations": {
            "en_US": {
              "@id": "/api/v2/shop/product-translations/123",
              "@type": "ProductTranslation",
              "id": 123,
              "name": "product name",
              "slug": "product-name"
        }
    }

Then let's say you want to remove ``translations``.

> Utilising serialization groups to remove fields might be quite tricky as symfony combines all of the serialization files into one.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Utilising serialization groups to remove fields might be quite tricky as Symfony combines all of the serialization files into one.
```

.. code-block:: xml

    <!--...-->
    <attribute name="normalization_context">
        <attribute name="groups">shop:product:custom_read</attribute>
    </attribute>
    <!--...-->

Now we need to modify the file ``config/serialization/Product.xml`` and add this custom serialization group to fields we want to show:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!--...-->
    <attribute name="updatedAt">
            <group>admin:product:read</group>
    </attribute>
    <attribute name="translations">
        <group>admin:product:create</group>
        <group>admin:product:read</group>
        <group>admin:product:update</group>
        <group>shop:product:read</group>
    </attribute>
    <attribute name="mainTaxon">
        <group>admin:product:create</group>
        <group>admin:product:read</group>
        <group>admin:product:update</group>
        <group>shop:product:read</group>
        <group>shop:product:custom_read</group>
    </attribute>
    <!--...-->

.. note::

    In example the ``translations`` doesn't have the new group ``shop:product:custom_read`` so it won't be shown by that endpoint.

>     The rest of fields that we wan't to show has the new serialization group declared.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The rest of the fields that we want to show have the new serialization group declared.
```

    Changing prefix without security configuration update can expose confidential data (like customers addresses).

After these two steps you can start to use endpoints with new prefixes.

How to customize serialization?
-------------------------------

Let's say that you want to change the serialized fields in your responses.
For an example we will use ``Product`` resource and customize its fields.

Adding a field to response
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Let's say that you want to serialize existing field named ``averageRating`` to ``Product`` in admin response so the administrator would be able to check what is the average rating of product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say that you want to serialize the existing field named ``averageRating`` to ``Product`` in the admin response
so the administrator would be able to check what is the average rating of the product.
```
whenever a line gets lengthy please break it :D

First let's create serialization configuration file named ``Product.xml`` in ``config/serialization/Product.xml``

> and and add serialization group that is used by endpoint we want to modify, in this case the new ``group`` is called ``admin:product:read``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and add serialization group that is used by endpoint we want to modify, in this case the new ``group`` is called ``admin:product:read``:
```

.. code-block:: xml

    <?xml version="1.0" ?>

    <serializer xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping"
                xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
                xsi:schemaLocation="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping https://symfony.com/schema/dic/serializer-mapping/serializer-mapping-1.0.xsd"
    >
        <class name="Sylius\Component\Core\Model\Product">
            <attribute name="averageRating">
                <group>admin:product:read</group>
                <group>shop:product:read</group>
            </attribute>
        </class>
    </serializer>

.. tip::

>     You can create your own serialization group for every endpoint or use the one out of the box. If you don't know the name of group for endpoint you want to modify,
>     you can find it by searching for your class configuration file in `%kernel.project_dir%/vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/api_resources``
>     and look for path that you want to modify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can create your own serialization group for every endpoint or use the one out of the box.
    If you don't know the name of group for endpoint you want to modify, you can find it by searching 
    for your class configuration file in `%kernel.project_dir%/vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/api_resources``
    and look for the path that you want to modify.
```

.. tip::

    The serialization groups from Sylius look this way to reflect: ``user context``, ``resource name`` and ``type of operation``.

After this change your response should be extended with new field:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        "averageRating": 3,
        //...
    }

.. tip::

    Read more about API Platform `serialization groups <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/serialization/#using-serialization-groups>`_

We were able to add a field that exists in ``Product`` class, but what if you want to extend it with custom fields?
Let's customize response now with your custom fields serialized in response.

> .. tip::
> 
>     The same way you may expose additional fields added to any Sylius resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Looks like an _overexplanation_ 😉

Adding a custom field to response
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's say that you want to add a new field named ``additionalText`` to ``Customer``.
First we need to create a new serializer that will support this resource. Let's name it ``CustomerNormalizer``:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace App\Serializer;

    use Sylius\Component\Core\Model\ProductInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Serializer\Normalizer\ContextAwareNormalizerInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Serializer\Normalizer\NormalizerAwareInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Serializer\Normalizer\NormalizerAwareTrait;
    use Webmozart\Assert\Assert;

    final class CustomerNormalizer implements ContextAwareNormalizerInterface, NormalizerAwareInterface
    {
        use NormalizerAwareTrait;

>         private const ALREADY_CALLED = 'product_normalizer_already_called';

Reviewer 4: `customer_normalizer_already_called`?

            $context[self::ALREADY_CALLED] = true;

            $data = $this->normalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);

            return $data;
        }

        public function supportsNormalization($data, $format = null, $context = []): bool
        {
            if (isset($context[self::ALREADY_CALLED])) {
                return false;
            }

            return $data instanceof CustomerInterface;
        }
    }

And now let's declare its service in config files:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/services.yaml
    App\Serializer\CustomerNormalizer:
        tags:
            - { name: 'serializer.normalizer', priority: 100 }

Then we can add the new field:

.. code-block:: php

    //...
    $data = $this->normalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);

    $data['additionalText'] = 'your custom text or logic that will be added to this field.';

    return $data;
    //...

Now your response should be extended with the new field:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "email": "sylius@example.com",
        "firstName": "sylius",
        "additionalText": "my additional field with text",
        //...
    }

> But let's consider another case where the Normalizer exists for given Resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But let's consider another case where the Normalizer exists for a given Resource.
```

Here we will also add a new field named ``additionalText`` but this time to ``Product``.

> First we need to create a serializer that will support our ``Product`` resource, but in this case we have a ``ProductNormalizer`` provided from Sylius.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we need to create a serializer that will support our ``Product`` resource but in this case, we have a ``ProductNormalizer`` provided by Sylius.
```

> Unfortunately we cannot use more than one normalizer per resource, hence we will override existing one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, we cannot use more than one normalizer per resource, hence we will override the existing one.
```

> Let's than copy code of ProductNormalizer from ``vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Serializer/ProductNormalizer.php`` :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's then copy the code of ProductNormalizer from ``vendor/sylius/sylius/src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Serializer/ProductNormalizer.php`` :
```

        private const ALREADY_CALLED = 'product_normalizer_already_called';

        public function normalize($object, $format = null, array $context = [])
        {
            Assert::isInstanceOf($object, ProductInterface::class);
            Assert::keyNotExists($context, self::ALREADY_CALLED);

            $context[self::ALREADY_CALLED] = true;

            $data = $this->normalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);
            $variant = $this->defaultProductVariantResolver->getVariant($object);
            $data['defaultVariant'] = $variant === null ? null : $this->iriConverter->getIriFromItem($variant);

            return $data;
        }

        public function supportsNormalization($data, $format = null, $context = []): bool
        {
            if (isset($context[self::ALREADY_CALLED])) {
                return false;
            }

            return $data instanceof ProductInterface;
        }
    }

And now let's declare its service in config files:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/services.yaml
    App\Serializer\ProductNormalizer:
        tags:
            - { name: 'serializer.normalizer', priority: 100 }

.. warning::

>     As we can use only one Normalizer per resource we need to set priority higher then one from Sylius.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    As we can use only one Normalizer per resource we need to set priority for it, higher than the priority of the Sylius one.
```

>     You can find priority value of Normalizer in ``src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/services/serializers.xml``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can find the priority value of the Sylius Normalizer in ``src/Sylius/Bundle/ApiBundle/Resources/config/services/serializers.xml``
```

Then we can add the new field:

.. code-block:: php

    //...
    $data = $this->normalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);

    $data['additionalText'] = 'your custom text or logic that will be added to this field.';

    return $data;
    //...

And your response should be extended with the new field:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        "additionalText": "my additional field with text",
        //...
    }

Removing a field from a response
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Let's say that for some reason you want to remove some field from serialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say that for some reason you want to remove a field from serialization.
```

> One of possible solution could be that you use serialization groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One possible solution could be that you use serialization groups.
```

Those will limit the fields from your resource, according to serialization groups that you will choose.

.. tip::

    Read more about API Platform `serialization groups <https://api-platform.com/docs/core/serialization/#using-serialization-groups>`_

Let's assume that ``Product`` resource returns such a response:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        "translations": {
            "en_US": {
              "@id": "/api/v2/shop/product-translations/123",
              "@type": "ProductTranslation",
              "id": 123,
              "name": "product name",
              "slug": "product-name"
        }
    }

Then let's say you want to remove ``translations``.

Utilising serialization groups to remove fields might be quite tricky as Symfony combines all of the serialization files into one.

> The easiest solution to remove the field is to create a new serialization group and use it for fields you want to have and declare this group in the endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest solution to remove the field is to create a new serialization group, use it for the fields you want to have, and declare this group in the endpoint.
```

> First let's add the ``config/api_platform/Product.xml`` configuration file. See ``How to add an additional endpoint?`` for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's add the ``config/api_platform/Product.xml`` configuration file. See :ref:`how-to-add-additional-endpoint` for more information.
```

If you add a reference to the "How to add an additional endpoint?" header, then you'd be able to link to it from here via `:ref: (see [docs](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html#ref-role)).

```
.. _how-to-add-additional-endpoint:
How to add an additional endpoint?
-----------------------------------
```

> Then let's modify the endpoint. For this example I will use GET item in the shop, but you can also create some custom endpoint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then let's modify the endpoint. For this example, we will use GET item in the shop, but you can also create some custom endpoint:
```

    <attribute name="mainTaxon">
        <group>shop:product:custom_read</group>
    </attribute>
    <!--...-->

.. note::

    In xml example the ``translations`` is not declared with ``<group>shop:product:custom_read</group>`` group, so endpoint won't return this value.
    The rest of the fields that we want to show have the new serialization group declared.

In cases, where you would like to remove small amount of fields, the serializer would be a way to go.
First step is to create a class as in ``Adding a custom field to response`` and register its service.

Then modify it's logic with this code:

.. code-block:: php

    //...
    $data = $this->normalizer->normalize($object, $format, $context);

    unset($data['translations']); // removes `translations` from response

    return $data;
    //...

Now your response fields should look like this:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "variants": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-variants/product-variant-0",
        ],
        // the translations which were here are now removed
    }

Renaming a field of a response
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Renaming name of response fields is very simple. In this example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changing the name of response fields is very simple. In this example
```

let's modify the ``options`` name to ``optionValues``, that's how response looks like now:

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        //...
        "id": 123,
        "code": "product_code",
        "product": "/api/v2/shop/products/product_code",
        "options": [
            "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/product_size_s"
        ],
        //...
    }

The simplest method to achieve this is to modify the serialization configuration file that we've already created.
Let's add to the ``config/serialization/Product.xml`` file config for ``options`` with a ``serialized-name`` attribute description:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!--...-->
    <attribute name="options">
        <group>admin:product:read</group>
        <group>shop:product:read</group>
    </attribute>
    <!--...-->

> And just add a ``serialized-name`` into attribute description with new name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And just add a ``serialized-name`` into the attribute description with a new name:
```
